A couple of things which occurred while you were a
student that had been of some interest to us and
wondered what you might be able to tell us about it,
which I guess was your freshman year. There were
two incidents of some interest. One was the
incident involving the rice owl. Yeah. And the
other, the branding of Bevo. Do you have any
recollection of those two? No, I have a very...
strong recollection of the Rice Owl episode, not
that I was involved in it, but one of the football
players who roomed right across the hall from me
when I was a freshman was wakened, and these boys
from Rice came up and,
well, we had stolen the owl down there and brought
it up here, and they I believe there were two cars
up. I remember I mentioned maybe just one car. And
they drove up here and got the owl. And could have
gotten away, but in their exuberance before they
left the campus, they hollered and woke everybody
up. So the posse formed. There was a train that came
through here at, oh, 4.30 or something like that in
the morning. And they rushed down there, 15 or 20 of
them, and got on that train and went to Navasota.
and blocked the road, which in those days wasn't
too hard, just a dirt road, and captured them and
brought them back up here. And I can remember at
noon the next day on the steps of Speza Hall, Dr.
Brazell and the leaders in this posse were there on
the steps, and they had these rice boys. They were
all, I don't remember, were they handcuffed or
whatnot? Anyhow, they had them captured.
They had, among them was a, I believe, a private
detective from Houston. They had probably hired
to help them. And they let all the boys go the next
day, I think, but this private detective, he kept
for a week. The room wouldn't let him out.
The branding of Bevo, I didn't know a thing about. I
was just I knew about the incident. They were all
upperclassmen, and there were pictures in the
paper about it. Back to the Rice Owl incident. What
did they do to this detective that they kept
confined? I don't remember anything he did except
just kept him in a room locked up.
But then presumably finally let him go. Oh, yeah,
they let him go. There again, I think the spirit of
that kind of thing in those days was a little more
carefree. Nobody was mad at anybody.
Nobody got hurt.
I think the university people, when they branded
the steer, they applauded. They thought that was a
pretty good trick.
One thing in connection with the branding of Bevo
that we've been trying to track down, we have a
couple of pictures of the steer with the 13 to 0
brand on it.
In view of your leadership position among the
student body during your senior year, I want to ask
you this. One of those pictures has a clipping on
the back of it Well, one
of the pictures, and we also have an invitation to a
banquet, which we feel occurred in January of
1920, which would have been your senior year.
Indications are that this steer was slaughtered,
and they had a banquet in Austin, to which people
from the athletic department at A&M and the
administration at A&M were invited. And the meal
was Bevo. Yeah. Do you have any recollection of
that? Oh, I don't. I sure don't. And one of the
articles that's pasted to the back of one of the
pictures indicates that the hide of the animal was
skinned, I mean was cured, and each school got a
half of it. I don't know. You don't have any? I don't
have any recollection of that. Uh-huh. Well, I was
wondering in view of the fact that, you know, your
position on campus and then your position with the
Association of Former Students, we can't find any
other evidence that A&M ever had half the height of
Bevo. I don't remember anything about it. I sure
don't. The other, one other thing involving Bevo
was that, you know, the story has long been told
that this 13 to 0 brand was changed to read Bevo.
and that this is how the animal got its name.
Well, I don't know. I never had heard that. I would
doubt it. I don't know. I think the steer's name was
Beevil when they branded it, wasn't it? Well, this
is one thing we have never really been able to
figure out. There is some... indication
somewhere that we picked up that the animal's name
was Bevo before the branding. That's what I
thought. Some people have indicated that they
thought that the 13-0 was converted to 13 to a B and
the dash into an E and a V was stuck in and the zero
became the O of Bevo. We've been told Bevo was a
rather popular non-alcoholic drink that was
served on campus. An imitation beer. Now, was Bevo
sold in College Station or brand also? I don't
know. I imagine it was. I don't know whether it was
just a general term for all imitation
beer or not. Or whether it was a particular brand
that might have been popular in Austin. Yeah, I
don't know. I hadn't thought about it. Well, it's
one of those things that we still need to do some
work on, I think. But we've been asking about as
many people as we can find who are around at that
point to see what they may know about it.
Let's see, I believe you played basketball for all
four years that you were here. Well, yeah, four
years. You played freshman basketball and three
years of varsity. And then you were captain of the
championship team in 1920. What
was collegiate basketball like in the teens and
20s? Oh, it was more a wrestling match. It wasn't
anything like today's games. Of course, the
players today are so much more skillful and so much
bigger. We had a boy on our team, Tiny Keene, who was
about six feet four, and he was a curiosity around
the league. I mean, we called him the Giant. Nobody
had ever seen a basketball player that tall
before. He wasn't too good, but... It wasn't until
later years that these giants started coming
along. And, of course, they changed the game up.
But I would guess from what you said, being more of a
wrestling match than anything, than today's
game, that there was less calling of fouls. Oh,
yeah.
I believe all four years I played, you designated
one foul shooter. He shot all the fouls for your
team. Of course, you always picked out the one that
could shoot them the best. Uh-huh. And my
recollection is he might go try six or seven,
eight, or ten fouls a game. That'd be about all of
those. Nowadays, 50, 60. 50 in the game. Yeah. And
that's about more than one a minute in the game.
Yeah. Yeah. So someone has told us that the man who
had the ball was kind of fair game. He was fair game.
Everybody was after him. He could do almost
anything within reason to get the ball. He
couldn't grab hold of them, but as far as blocking
away the elbows and knees and hips, well, that was
all right. He could do that. And I believe you ran
track, I believe, as a freshman. I tried to run
track, but I wasn't very successful. What was your
specialty in that? Half mile. Half mile. Yeah.
And let's see.
I believe in your senior year, you were a second
lieutenant in the Ross Volunteers. Could you tell
us a little bit about that organization How did you
become a member of the RV, and then how were the
officers chosen? Well, it was pretty much a social
organization.
Well, practically altogether a social
organization, and you had to be elected to
membership by the organization.
I don't think we did any drilling. I don't remember
any drilling. I think we had RV uniforms all right.
I guess we could stand up in a line. but as far as
appearing at public affairs, I don't remember any
at all. We had a big R.B. dance every spring, which
was one of the big college dances,
and I think we wore our uniforms then, but as far as
appearing at governors and inaugurals, Mardi
Gras, things of that sort. But was it still billed
as a crack drill team? No, I don't think so. It seems
to me earlier when they first started that they...
Well, I expect earlier days they did. Then it kind
of went down, I guess.
And finally, the military department pretty well
took it over, which they have now, just my
understanding of it. And it's no longer... But it
was sort of, it operated like a fraternity in those
earlier days, let's say. If you weren't well
liked, you didn't get elected to the RVs. No matter
how good you were at drilling. And
then were the officers, Say you were a second
lieutenant. Was that an appointment by somebody
else? I think it was elected. I think it was elected
officers. Well, that's somewhat maybe of a
carryover of the earlier military tradition, and
I know almost all of the companies organized in the
Civil War elected their own officers. It was more
like a fraternity than anything else, I guess, as
far as... election was concerned and the
membership was concerned.
Membership was highly regarded, but I think more
as a social recognition than anything else.
Your senior Longhorn indicated you were also a
member of the Junto Society. Could you tell us a
little bit about that organization? Well, that
was Tommy Mayo was responsible for that, I think.
And it was just a group of students and a few faculty
members who were interested in discussions
of one kind or another. And I
was one of the original members. We pondered a long
time on a name, and finally, I believe Tommy May
will come up with Junto, which I think he said in
Spanish means a gathering. And we would meet
sometimes at these professors' houses,
sometimes in a room somewhere, and each member had
to deliver a paper every year, sometime during the
year, and he could select his topics. So it would
have been a pretty limited membership then. Oh,
I'd say a dozen maybe at most. In order to get around
to everybody in a reasonable number of meetings.
Yeah, but that was Mayo and we had a man in the
English department named Thomas, Bill Thomas,
who was also involved in it. Miss Thomas used to be
in the library for a long time after he died.
And we had a character in the architecture
department named Gilbert Geist, who was
instrumental in it. It was just a nice, it was a nice
activity as far as, for people who were interested
in that kind of thing. So then did you have a,
someone each meeting gave a paper and then did you
discuss the paper or? Yeah, yeah. Discussed the
topic. Mm-hmm. So almost everybody had to do a
little preparation. Everybody had to do some
work. You knew in advance what the subject of the
paper was to be, I take it. I think so, yeah.
And let's see, I believe you were also associate
editor to the battalion. That didn't mean
anything. It didn't mean anything. It didn't mean
anything. I don't remember work. I just don't
remember what I did or anything on the battalion.
Well, generally the associate's supposed to help
the
editor. That's right. But I guess if an editor
works it right, he passes all the work on to
somebody else. He's a good executive. And if he
does that, then the associate really doesn't have
that much to do.
Okay.
How is it that you happen to pick animal husbandry
as a made your field. I don't know, to tell you the
truth. I had no agricultural background. Your
father was a railroad man. That's right. I worked
on a farm one summer, but I guess it's sort of
romantic, you know, cowboy life, one thing or
another. Why I did, I don't really know. Probably
you didn't have that field chosen before you came
here, I would imagine. Well, I guess I did. I knew
what I was going to take. As I say, I probably took it
because I didn't have to have any math. Uh-huh.
Animal husbandry. I was wondering whether maybe
after you'd been here a year or two, you
encountered a faculty member in that department.
You mentioned John Burns, I guess, was head of the
department. No, I never did. I don't recall any
doubts about changing. I couldn't have changed to
engineering. I couldn't do engineering. I
couldn't do math. And, uh, Of course, that was
pretty much all they had in those days, in
agriculture and engineering.
Well, then you mentioned sometime during the
spring of your senior year, Dr. Mayo suggested
perhaps you go to... Mizzell. Mizzell, I mean.
Mizzell suggested that you get a master's and then
come back here and teach, which you did for one
year. And you did teach animal husbandry at that
point. Yeah. And then you went to Dallas, I believe
you said, and you were in the insurance business.
What type of insurance business were you in? Life
insurance. Life insurance. Hated every minute of
it. Well, I've been told by a life insurance agent
at one point that trying to sell life insurance in
the days before Social Security was really kind of
a losing proposition. Nobody wanted it. I just
didn't like it at all. I made a living in it. I was
delighted to come back here. You say you were
delighted to come back. Was the offer made to you?
Yeah. Someone from here approached you to come
back into the- Well, I knew Colonel Ashburn from my
days in school. What was his position in the
university or in the college? Well, when he first
came down here, he was a publicity officer for the
college. Information officer, we call him now.
Then I believe he moved from that into Secretary of
the Former Student Association. Uh-huh.
Somewhere along the line, he was Commandant at one
point, I believe. I guess he was Commandant before
he went at the Former Student Association. Yeah.
And then you came here in... Fall of 25. Fall of 25 as
an assistant to Ashburn. Yeah. He left then in the
spring of 26. I succeeded him. What were your...
principal duties as an assistant to him? Well, I
helped edit the Texas Aggie, which in those days
was a newspaper. Yeah. And did anything else. Of
course, the program was much smaller in those days
than it is now. Not nearly as many alumni. He did the
traveling. I didn't do much traveling.
He went on, he transferred then, I believe, to the
information office. Seems somewhere, I believe,
I indicated. I'm not sure about the sequence
there. He came, he was information officer. Oh,
okay. Well, maybe I'm thinking something else.
Then the war came along, and he was a highly
decorated hero in the war. And then I believe he was
commandant. And then he was former student
secretary. He left here. His wife died then. And he
left here to go to Houston, I believe, as head of the
Chamber of Commerce. Oh, okay. And I believe
somewhere I picked up that you taught in the
history department for a couple years. Oh, one
year. I was just, I was moonlighting. You were? I
guess that was the year I came down here. The first
year you were with the Association of Former
Students. What courses did you teach? Medieval
Europe. Medieval history. Had you had any courses
in that? Yes, I had. I always liked history. I liked
teaching history. But that was something you
filled in. I filled in. And then I do have one
teaching distinction, I taught the first course
in genetics offered here. Was that when you first?
That was that year I came back here. In 21-22?
21-22. I had had a course in genetics. I never had
heard of genetics. I had a course in genetics at
Wisconsin. And Dean Kyle called me up one day and
said, didn't you have a course in genetics at
Wisconsin? I said, yeah. He said, you're going to
teach a course next term.
OK. Then in 27, I believe it was, you became
executive director of the Association of Former
Students following that. 26, I believe. 26, yeah.
What size of an operation was that at that point? I
mean, you were an executive director. How many
people did you have working under you? Well, I had
one man and one girl, I think. Just one, I believe.
Then we just gradually grew. We never did have over
five when I was five or six.
We didn't have much money nowadays. They got
plenty of money. They're just doing fine over
there. Well, I don't think they'll ever admit that
they have plenty. Well, no, I'm sure of that. They
have substantial sums, anyway.
I read a newspaper clipping that was in your
biographical file, and they mentioned a number of
things that were inaugurated while you were uh,
executive secretary. And I thought I might talk
with you about those a little bit, see what you
have, uh, your recollections are about them. One
of the things, uh, that was done while you were
executive secretary was the organization of the
placement office. Yeah. Can you tell us a little
bit about the background as to how that came into
being? And I mean, I take it there was no placement
service. There was no placement services. I
don't, uh, I just remember promoting the idea and I
think we financed, the former students financed
the first year of it and I hired the first director
and later along the line the college took it over
and became quite a good size office. I believe
ultimately they kind of developed two placement
offices, one in education and one for everybody
else. Yeah, that's the latest development. Well,
I believe they're merging those. Are they? I
believe next year they're supposed to be all under
one. All under one, yeah. I believe they had a
placement office in teacher placement. They've
had the two, and I believe now that's all going to be
in one. Well, through the years, and particularly
in those days...
The former students were always ahead of the
college in their thinking and dreaming. We had a
succession of presidents who were not
particularly interested in branching out on that
thing. And we were always promoting them to do
something, like the placement office. I think we
promoted that. And we promoted the archives
office. I don't remember. I believe we financed
that. I believe the former students financed that
for a year or two. Yeah, I believe for maybe as much
as three, at least in part. And then the university
put up some money. And I believe the former
students, let's see, financed the first three
years pretty heavily. And then the fourth year,
another amount. And I've not been able to track
down what's come since then. Well, I don't
remember either. I remember we were always
proposing items, and it was Grassley who got them
over. And I guess I would have to say, in addition to
proposing items, you were kind of putting your
money where your mouth was, too. Well, you had to
get them started. You had to get them started
financially as well as idea-wise. And the
university, the school finally took them over
then. I
know that That said, before the placement office
was organized, I know that recruiters came to the
campus to interview people. Who did they get in
touch with? I guess they just went to the
department head, as far as I know. The placement
office then would simplify matters. Simplify
matters, give them a place to start from. And would
also give the students a place to go to.
I believe you also were involved in starting the
annual giving program that ultimately developed
into the development fund. How had you solicited
money prior to that? We had dues, $5 a year dues.
There is a national organization of alumni
secretaries, and I started going to their
meetings. I got a lot of big ideas. And I discovered
that these schools that have an annual giving fund
were just taking in a whole lot more money than we
were. And so I got the idea, and we just gradually
promoted. There again, it was our promotion. And
we held joint meetings with the board of directors
of the college in one thing or another, and had to
work out some financial arrangements. And the
college helped us a little financially for a
number of years. And that's the way it came about.
So then what you did was substitute an annual
giving program for dues.
your dues were, what, $5 a year? $5 a year. And this
was used primarily to support the office of the...
Support the office, yeah. Of the secretary,
executive secretary and the staff. All the
support they had. And so you really didn't have, at
that point, you didn't have any money that you
could really kind of turn over to the college. No,
we didn't have any money at all. We were doing well
to keep our heads above water. Where did you have
offices at that point? Uh...
Well, let's see. When I came down here, we had
officers in the Civil Engineering Building. Then
we had a fire, and we had officers in the basement of
the M.E. Building, and then we moved down to the
System Administration Building. I don't
remember just where we were when we, where our
officers were when we started the development
fund. I would guess probably we were down at the
administration building then. That was early in
the 30s, I think, or no, early in the 40s. Yeah,
because that's mid-30s, the systems building, I
believe, was mid to late 30s. Yeah, yeah. And
certainly the former students were deeply
involved in the promotion of the Memorial Student
Center. Well, yeah, there again, we had to promote
the idea. It was, it had been suggested through the
years. Students, one thing or another, one class
way back there had put their class, these classes
usually end up the year with a few hundred dollars,
and they had designated that as the beginning of a
student union fund, and the former students held
it. And so we started promoting it, and made that I
guess the first objective of the annual giving,
which was a natural. And we got, I think, $250,000,
and then, of course, the college put the rest of the
money up. But it was largely a case of moving the
board of directors, you know, get them to take a
step. People were pretty scared in those days,
much more than they are now. They were scared of
what people were saying. I used to argue about
having Sunday picture shows when I was over at the
air-dome. We'd have Sunday picture shows. I was
afraid of what people would
say. Of course, they probably would have said
plenty of it. Yeah, I can remember. But that's
pretty much past. I don't think, oh, you have to
keep it in your mind. You can't go out and do
violence to public opinion, but it's far less than
it was. But the $250,000 which the association
contributed towards the MSC,
can you recall about how long it took you to
accumulate that amount? I believe three years. I
believe we had a three year objective.